README.md, before:

# Modelling N-Player Sports with Gaussian Processes

Project for Machine Learning and the Physical World, part of the ACS and MLMI courses at the University of Cambridge.

The idea of this project is to predict the outcome of horse races by modeling the finishing times of horses in each race.

The general idea behind modeling a sport like this is to arrive at a probability distribution over N players, which describes the winning probability of each of the players. However, modeling the outcome of horse races is difficult because of 2 major obstacles:
1. There are a variable number of horses in each race. This number usually ranges from around 3-20.
2. There is often comparatively little data on each horse, and sometimes none. We have to find a way to factor in horses we have never seen run before into our model.

The proposed method works something like the following:
1. For each horse, we use a Gaussian process to estimate a function that outputs a mean and variance for the finishing time of a horse given a combination of input variables including things like course and horse statistics (possibly with dimensionality reduction steps).
2. We use those mean and variance predictions to create a series of normal distributions, representing the finishing times for each horse.
3. We sample points from those distributions. For each sampling round we take the lowest sampled value to be the winner. We count up the number of times each horse wins and divide by the number of samples to reach an estimate of the distribution of win probabilities.
4. If a horse has no or very little data to go on, we need to find another method of coming to a good estimate of win probability. This will be a task in itself, but we are provided with the starting prices (that is, the market odds of a horse winning before the race starts) which could be used to estimate the finishing time distribution parameters directly.

Data: 
https://www.kaggle.com/gdaley/hkracing

Commit message:

Updated for F1 and added simulation

README.md, after:

# Modelling N-Player Sports with Gaussian Processes

Project for Machine Learning and the Physical World, part of the ACS and MLMI courses at the University of Cambridge.

In this project, we will build a simulation of the sport of Formula 1. This sport presents many interesting difficulties to us as machine learning practitioners. A few of these are listed below: 
* There are multiple processes that constitute the speed of a driver in a race, each of these possibly operating at different fidelities.
* The interactions between drivers in a race must be accounted for.
* As there are a variable number of drivers, classic machine learning models that require a fixed input size won't immidiately work.
* There is sometimes very little data on a driver (at least in the data we will be using), but we require modelling every driver to accurately model the race, so our system must be able to account for drivers with little data.

The goal of this project is to simulate the sport of Formula 1. The model devised here simulates each race lap by lap, with 3 processes determining the time spent in each each lap. Each of these processes is a learned function of the data, and is specific to each driver, manufacturer course combination. These processes are:
1. The time spent driving the lap independent of other cars and pit stops etc.
2. Overtaking behaviour: does the car get stuck behind another car. If so, how can we effectively model the overtake dynamics on a given lap?
3. The dynamics of pit stops - how long do they last and how do they influence the time a race takes to finish?

The winner being the driver with the smallest time on the final lap.

The process iterates through each driver, incrememting their time by a combination of the models listed above. The idea is for this simple breakdown of the dynamics of Formula 1 to allow us to model a complex sport, with multiple components and interactions between drivers with relative ease. This system should be sufficient to navigate the difficulties in modelling this sport.

If we finish head of schedule, we could look into using this system to generate odds for each driver winning a race by running a Monte Carlo simulation over the created model of each game. This should allow us to generate odds under different conditions. For example, we could use these output odds to look into how a driver could change their pit stopping strategy to maximise their chance of winning.

Data: https://www.kaggle.com/rohanrao/formula-1-world-championship-1950-2020
